# Blood-Bank-Management-System
“Blood bank management system” entirely focuses upon providing people with blood and plasma whenever needed. Along with it, It also organizes both blood and plasma donation camps so that people can come and donate there. It is not compulsory to donate at the camps only. The person can also come at the place where management is set up and donate blood there also. When the donor comes then at first details are which include both personal and health details and then they are verified and then after donating he/she is given a certificate of appreciation and same occurs in plasma donation also ,but their the management does not provide any certificate for it . The donation occurs with proper precautions and instructions. Anyone who does not seemed to be fit according to the instructions then he/she is not allowed to donate. 
While in case of patient who comes in search of blood or plasma .Again first details are taken which include both hospital and personal details then details are verified and once details get verified, the patient is asked to enter the required blood group. If the required blood group is not available the patient is advised to contact some other blood bank else payment is done. Payment further include 2 options i.e either by donating same number of units of blood or by directly billing the required amount. If the patient’s family member decide to donate the blood then with proper precautions and instructions blood is taken however if it’s not suitable for the member to donate the he/she is referred to pay only . In the billing section there are 3 modes i.e 1. By credit or debit card , 2.By cash and 3.By Paytm . However, If the patient is in the need of plasma then the patient is given the plasma of required blood group and nothing is charged from the patient as we consider it to be a part of our social service in this needy time . Thus, Our system is entirely completing the needs of the people in this difficult time.

Objectives of the Blood Bank Management System are as follows: 
1. To register a person as a donor or a patient.
2. To let the patients search for the donors and make their request for the blood or plasma as per their requirement.
3. To help by providing a medium for the donors to donate blood or plasma.
4. To make people aware about the criteria a donor must meet in order to donate blood or plasma.
5. To provide a means for the volunteers above or equal to 18 years of age to organize blood donation camps or plasma donation camps.
6. To sum up, the main purpose of the blood bank management system is to simplify the process of searching for blood or plasma in case of any emergency and maintain the records of donors, patients, blood or plasma donation camps and blood/plasma stocks in the bank.
